#summary Known issues
#labels Phase-Support

This page lists the up-to-date known issues of gdipp. Some of them may be solved in the next one or two versions, others may stay long.

  * **Text in programs that use old Qt framework would disappear.** Qt before version 4.5.0 use its own bitmap cache, and relies alpha test on a undocumented feature of GDI. gdimm currently cannot simulate the same behavior as the original ExtTextOut, therefore Qt thinks all glyph bitmap pixels are transparent, and does not show the pixels. Before gdipp 0.7.6,  the solution is to set "zero\_alpha" of these programs to 1. In the gdipp 0.7.6 stable release, considering that Qt is widely used, we decide to set zero\_alpha to 1 by default. Remember to add special rules to programs whenever you encounter alpha channel related compatibility issues. **Solved in 0.8.1.**

  * **Text runs are not be displayed completely at the end when using FreeType renderer with [[auto-hinting](http://freetype.sourceforge.net/autohinting/index.html).** Glyphs generated with auto-hinting are usually wider than others (GDI, gdipp with other settings). Therefore if the application only displays a specific rectangle while "clipping" the rest, extra characters outside the rectangle is not visible (the width of the rectangle is pre-calculated by GDI). If gdipp shrinks the glyph outline before rendering to bitmap, the hinting effect is broken. This is a native incompatibility between FreeType auto-hinting and GDI and there is currently no solution in gdipp. Avoid using such settings in applications with clipping. **Solved in 0.9.1.**

  * **CPU usage of WmiPrvSE.exe increases noticeably when gdipp Services start.** gdipp uses WMI to monitor process creation events. WmiPrvSE.exe is the WMI provider process and uses CPU resource to check process related events in intervals. The high CPU usage is due to the implementation of WMI by Microsoft. gdipp uses **1 second** as the poll interval to decrease the delay between process launching and injection, though it is suggested in MSDN that 5 minutes or longer is more appropriate (http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa394527%28v=VS.85%29.aspx). If user suffers from the high CPU usage, the setting **[poll\_interval](http://code.google.com/p/gdipp/wiki/SETTING_Beta)** is available to change. **Solved in 0.8.2.**

  * **gdipp does not work well with Chrome.** Chrome comes with a sandbox that restricts numerous code to be executed, in order to obtain high integrity level. Due to the restrictions, normal DLL injection mechanisms fail and thus text cannot be rendered. gdipp exercises a special injection method on Chrome, which is effective though imperfect. Random error message dialogs may popup, and the DirectWrite renderers crash the render subprocess. Since most of the issues are caused by the sandbox, unless user disables it manually, there is nothing gdipp can do to remedy.

  * **GDI+ text is not affected.** GDI+ is a separate graphic library apart from GDI. Some applications use GDI+ to draw text, and it is out of the catch of current hook mechanism. After compilation, all GDI+ classes and functions become [GDI+ flat API](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms533969%28v=VS.85%29.aspx), whose internal is private and never published by Microsoft. Therefore, it is impossible to add support to GDI+ applications.

  * **Text loses rendering when image is inserted into Word document or Excel sheet.** Word and Excel changes text mapping mode from MM\_TEXT to MM\_ANISOTROPIC whenever an image object is inserted. MM\_ANISOTROPIC uses different coordination system from the normal MM\_TEXT mode. gdipp does not support MM\_ANISOTROPIC in the current version. However, the support may be added in future releases.